Capstone Project-1 Summary

Organizations are facing increased supply chain costs and competitive pressures. Caterpillar, who manufactures construction equipment requires 10,000 different styles of tube assemblies supplied by 57 different suppliers. Some suppliers carry just one type of assembly while others carry many depending upon their length of the contract. Furthermore, slight difference in specifications such as bend radius, length, weight, order quantity and so on, the tube assembly price can vary and so it becomes difficult to identify which assemblies we buy in bulk and from whom so as to realize best business savings? 

Hence, the primary goal of this project was to be able to gather actionable business insights so that we can optimize supply chain performance and improve operational sustainability.    
Here are the two basic questions we will try to answer:

1.	Would it possible to build a model that can learn from our previous organizational spend and help us predict supplier pricing based on different specification?  
2.	Because, we have so many different suppliers and assemblies, would it be possible to categorize and see which assemblies and suppliers best meets our business needs? 
As always, my first step in this project started with gathering few public datasets and then qualifying which dataset will help us answer these questions. I chose Caterpillar because I felt the connection. There were 21 tables which had to be combined to preserve the most relevant features for our modelling.  We wrangled the data, developed new features as well as dropped fields to make the most out of 23% of the entire dataset. 

Please see below highlights of my project findings. I have used Jupyter Notebook to ask questions and prepare the code.  You will observe visuals as well as observations along the way which has helped me unfold hidden insights. 

Section1: Supplier Pricing Prediction:

1)	After comparing 7 different models, ensemble algorithm was able to predict supplier pricing with more than 98% accuracy and least RMSE error.

2)	Supplier pricing is dependent on product specifications, annual volume and type of contract pricing offered. Cost Vs Weight/Length/Dimeter etc.



3)	Because cost is dependent on the weight of the assembly, it was important to identify which components make our assemblies expensive as well as heavy. This can also be helpful in comparing supplier's total cost.  



Section 2:  Assembly and Supplier Categorization:

1)	Using domain experience, I anticipated needs of our business users and established pre-categorization criteria to understand when was our most recent purchase, how often we have purchased in the past, total spend etc. I used these features to pre-analyze our portfolio first.  
2)	Then applied clustering algorithm to group suppliers and assemblies using above criteria. 
3)	Visualized clusters against business needs to benchmark assembly and supplier groups that has managed significant spend, offered business most rebates and have highest business preference.

a)	Best Managed Assembly Category: Cluster 0

b)	Best Managed Suppliers: Supplier Cluster 2 


Future Possibilities: 

1)	Add additional features in the model such on time delivery, safety performance, contract compliance and inventory to further understand supplier performance. 
2)	Develop ETL pipeline to see and optimize supply chain performance in real-time.  
3)	Use time series modelling to predict future supplier pricing. 

For more information, please refer to my notebook on github. 

Thank you
Prashant Sanghal
